>> Jerome Hardaway: The next thing
we're gonna talk about right here
is Modern Resume Optimization for
Applicant Tracking Systems, or ATS.
You gonna see that acronym a lot.
I view ATSs as the big bad for
juniors and seniors alike.
Cuz even if you have a robust network and
someone can seeing your referral,
you still have to have a great resume.
You just can't sit there and send a piece
of paper with your name that says,
my friend said I work well here, right?
You can't do that.
So you have to have
a modern robust resume.
No more one to three pages, even if you're
a senior, stop at three pages, right?
Cuz there's no,
if you've been in tech past ten years,
there is nothing from year one
that's probably applicable to
the type of careers that you're
looking at in year ten, right?
So that's what you have to think about as
well, so no more than three pages, make
sure your note is diverse, it showcases,
remember, this is your highlight reel.
So what resumes are,
they are your highlight reel that starts
with data it ends with stories, right?
So let's go further into it.
You have to showcase your
extensive experience.
You have strong technical skills,
impressive achievements, leadership and
collaboration.
Your educational background,
if you have it.
Now, there's a big debate that
if you're in a coed school,
do you put down your education or
do you put that in and work?
I have a philosophy of you should
put it in educational background,
but you can put anything that
you do that's open source or
actually, like, contract into work.
Which is why I am always pushing people
to do open source projects, right?
The open source community is out there
to help you level up your game faster.
Some people are like, put it in work cuz
it's one of those processes, especially go
to for-profit Code School, you're
gonna put in work when you paid them.
It's kind of a weird flex but, whatever,
so, that's my picking on that.
Continuous learning and certifications,
especially if you are mid to senior,
people wanna see that you are still
out there learning, right?
They wanna know that you're still
out there, you're not just sitting
on your laurels, not leveling up your
game, not stepping up your game, right?
So you have to make sure that if
even if you don't have a degree,
you're still showcasing, I'm still
out there learning new things, right?
Recognition and awards.
Now this, not everybody has these,
you can omit this if you don't have it.
Diverse projects,
definitely showcase diverse projects,
especially projects
that are in production.
Remember, projects, I don't even call
them projects, we call them products,
products that people are using outranks
projects that are in production,
outranks projects that
are not in production.
So, building a thing that
people use no matter how small
is gonna get you further than building
a thing that is live that no one looks at.
And that's gonna get you even further
in building a thing that is theory,
that is not live, right?
So, products projects, and then just coat
that doesn't live anywhere on the web,
right, just repose, that's how you
should be ranking everything you built.
And you can start small, right?
Some of the most popular projects, or
products that have happened
in Vets Who Code are list
on repose that just help
people do things or
our web developer,
our web dev guide for Windows.
It was shared with Microsoft, and
I don't have a Windows machine, so
I didn't know anything about it.
But everybody was like, hey, I wish this
was shared to me when I was learning
JavaScript on Windows, and it ended
up getting over hundred stars, right?
And like,
random troop did that they end up getting
a job just because of that, right?
So products that people can use, projects,
and then projects that are like just code,
or you have to rank it based
upon the usefulness to users,
because once people use it,
you get metrics.
And when you get metrics,
you can add that to your resume,
and it's like, this showcases you
know how to track value, right?
Cuz that's what our resume is about
tracking and sharing our value.
Volunteering and leadership, let's say
you volunteer for Black Girls Code.
Is there another organization,
what's the Last Mile Foundation,
which is a great foundation that Front
End Masters actually supports that helps
incarcerated people learn how to write
software, or Vets Who Code, right?
That showcases that you're doing that
work and pouring back into community,
particularly with your skill
set as an extra points.
People love looking at that type of stuff.
And of course, publications, whether
you're self-publish your own blog, or
you get some cool crazy stories that
you can share, publish went viral on.
Was that not hacker rank?
It's hacker news, yeah, there you go,
that's the one with the bad
UI that programmers use.